Add draft for Flutter Driver post (#113)
kabisa/theguild.nl: draft/flutter-driver.md

# Extending Flutter Driver with custom commands

> [Flutter Driver](https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook/testing/integration/introduction) is a library to write end-to-end integration tests for Flutter apps. It's similar to Selenium WebDriver (for web apps), Espresso (for native Android apps) and Earl Grey (for native iOS apps). It works by instrumenting the Flutter app and then driving the application using a suite of Dart tests.

Reviewer: maybe also link to the other e2e test tools?

Author: ✅

You can actually use any (Dart) application to interact with Flutter Driver, but it's common to use the Dart test package to write unit tests using the driver. I linked to the Dart test package now.

We'll use a [NavigationObserver](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/NavigatorObserver-class.html) to get a hold of the [NavigatorState](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/NavigatorState-class.html), which we can use to push and pop routes. We need to be able to pass in a NavigationObserver from our test entry point,  so we can access it when we receive a command to navigate to root.

Change the `main` function of your app as follows:

```dart
void main() {
  _main(null);
}

void mainTest(NavigatorObserver navigatorObserver) {
  _main(navigatorObserver);
}

void _main(NavigatorObserver navigatorObserver) {
  runApp(MyApp(
    navigatorObserver: navigatorObserver,
  ));
}

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  final NavigatorObserver navigatorObserver;

  const MyApp({Key key, this.navigatorObserver}) : super(key: key);

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      // all other MaterialApp initialisation here
      navigatorObservers: navigatorObserver == null ? [] : [navigatorObserver],
    );
  }
}
```

> What this does is allow us to hook up a NavigationObserver from our test wrapper like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows us to hook up a NavigationObserver from our test wrapper like so:
```

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:flutter_driver/driver_extension.dart';
import 'package:my_app/main.dart' as app;

void main() {
  final navigationObserver = NavigatorObserver();

  enableFlutterDriverExtension(handler: (payload) async {
    if (payload == "navigate_to_root") {
      navigationObserver.navigator.popUntil(ModalRoute.withName('/'));
    }

    return null;
  });

  app.mainTest(navigationObserver);
}

```

Now from our tests we can send our custom command, for example in a `setUp` hook:

```dart
void main() {
  FlutterDriver driver;

  setUpAll(() async {
    driver = await FlutterDriver.connect();
    TestHelper.driver = driver;
  });

  tearDownAll(() async {

>     driver?.close();

Reviewer: Maybe good to explain the ? here?

Reviewer 2: https://www.woolha.com/tutorials/dart-using-null-aware-operators-examples

Author: It's kind of besides the point of the post to explain Dart language constructs. So for brevity I rather not go into this.
